### General informations

This repository contains the data transformation codes of Adventure Works company.

The raw data used are from a PostgreSQL database.

### Resources

The models are divided into a main folder, 'adventureworks', and this is subdivided into marts and staging.

In the marts folder, there are 4 dimensions and two facts, each of them has its sql and yml files, namely:

1. dim_adventureworks__customers (.sql and .yml);
2. dim_adventureworks__locations (.sql and .yml);
3. dim_adventureworks__products (.sql and .yml);
4. dim_adventureworks__sales_orders (.sql and .yml);
5. fct_adventureworks__sales_orderdetails_metrics (.sql and .yml);
6. fct_adventureworks__salesheaders_metrics (.sql and .yml);

In the staging folder, there is 1 source file and 15 stagings, namely:

1. source.yml;
2. stg_adventureworks_person__addresses.sql;
3. stg_adventureworks_person__businessentityaddresses.sql;
4. stg_adventureworks_person__countryregions.sql;
5. stg_adventureworks_person__persons.sql;
6. stg_adventureworks_person__stateprovinces.sql;
7. stg_adventureworks_production__productproductphotos.sql;
8. stg_adventureworks_production__products.sql;
9. stg_adventureworks_sales__creditcards.sql;
10. stg_adventureworks_sales__customers.sql;
11. stg_adventureworks_sales__salesorderdetails.sql;
12. stg_adventureworks_sales__salesorderheaders.sql;
13. stg_adventureworks_sales__salesorderheadersalesreasons.sql;
14. stg_adventureworks_sales__salesreasons.sql;
15. stg_adventureworks_sales__salesterritoryhistories.sql;
16. stg_adventureworks_sales__specialofferproducts.sql.

Also, there is a data test in the tests folder, 'salesorder.sql'.
The other folders are automatically generated by dbt Cloud, and the dbt_project.yml file has been configured.
